How to create a campaign map

1. Define campaign start date
Done in the mission properties dialog.

2. Define regions
Use influence areas.
They cannot overlap.
Each region's boundary must be convex.
Neighbouring regions must share contiguous segments. Corresponding vertices must be close.
In a region's boundary, vertices must be separated by at least 2km.
Airfields that participate in the campaign must all be located within some region.
Neighbouring regions should be connected by roads or rails. The roads and rails can go through other regions, or outside of all regions, but they must start and end in the two regions.
Avoid holes between regions, they will look ugly in the mission map and confuse players.
Put region icons on identifiable cities, need not be in the center of the region.
Put all regions in a group named "Regions".
Set region owners. Each coalition must own at least one region with factories.

3. Define roads and railways
Each road path must start with a waypoint named "StartR" or "StartL" and finish with another one named "EndR" or "EndL".
Each rail path must start with a waypoint named "Start" and finish with another one named "End".
Each path is bidirectional, so you don't need (and must not) define another identical path going in the opposite direction.
The speed, altitude and radius of waypoints do not matter.
The direction matters, and should be a tangent of the road/railway at the location of the waypoint.
Roads must be put in a group called "Roads", railways must be in "Trains".
Each bridge should be preceded by a waypoint named "BeforeBridge" and followed by a waypoint named "AfterBridge" (Not implemented yet, so you need not bother for now).
Make sure you place the waypoints on the actual location of the road. You need to use the terrain view in the editor, as the GUI map is often misaligned.
Consecutive waypoints should be separated by at most 20km (direct line).
Waypoints of roads should be adjusted to match the ground's altitude.
If the waypoint name ends with "R", the column will spawn in a line to the right of the waypoint, at 90 degrees of the waypoint's direction.
Similarly if it ends with "L", but on the left side instead.
Picking the side where the convoy spawns is important if one side is occupied by a lake or by static objects.

4. Place factories
Place static blocks in a group named "Factories" or "Static".
Suitable static blocks start with: "industrial_", "vl_pvrz01", "vl_rounddepot" (complete list is actually bigger than that).
Tip: On the Kuban and Moscow maps, all you need to do is import the template for that map into a group named "Static".
Factory buildings will be recognized automatically.

5. Place supply storage
Place static blocks with entities in a group named "Storage".
Suitable static blocks are: "arf_barak" (100), "arf_dugouts_2" (400), "arf_dugouts_3" (600), "arf_ammo_1" (100), "arf_hangararc" (1000),
"arf_hangarbox" (1000), "arf_hangars_1" (1200), "arf_gsm_1" (100), "arf_gsm_2" (75).
Number between parentheses above are the storage capacity of each static block.
Storage is used for anti-tank (AT) and anti-air (AAA) defenses. Each gun consumes 50.
(Note: the storage groups I used in Velikie-Luki provide 3200 storage units, enough for 64 guns)
Storage near airfields is used for bombs, each storage unit represents 10Kg of bombs.

6. Define AAA defense zones
Use influence areas named "AAA-nn" or "AA-nn" in a group named "Defenses", with "nn" replace by a number indicating the maximum number of guns in that area.
If the zone is named "AAA-nn", it will be composed of flak and fast firing artillery (20mm).
If the zone is named "AA-nn", it will be composed of flak and anti-air machine guns. The Germans get more machine guns than the Russians due to the difference in fire power of their respective machine guns.
Each area must be located within a region.
Each area must be convex.
Avoid trees and buildings in the area.

Make sure there is enough storage in the region for all the AAA canons in the defense areas.
Additional storage facilitates transferring supplies, it's a good idea to leave some extra storage capacity unused for defenses.

7. Define battle areas
Use influence areas in a group named "Battles". Each influence area should be shaped as a rectangle that is about 5km long.
The marker of each area should be roughly in its center.
There should be an influence area for each direction from which a region can be attacked, facing the direction from which attackers will come.
In other words, there should be an area for each neighbouring region connected with a road, facing that region.
Strictly speaking, only one battle area is really needed, but having multiple properly oriented lets the mission generator create more believable battles.

8. Define airfield spawn points
Use fakefields for planes. Both types (sideways and runway) can be used. They must be in a group named "Aifield spawns"
Do not create the entity.
Do create the chart. It's needed for picking spawn points according to wind, and also for AIs that are landing.
Create multiple spawn points, typically one at each runway end. This allows the mission generator to pick a takeoff and landing direction that faces the wind.
These alternative waypoints should all have the same name (typically the name of the airfield).

9. Define airfield storage
Create hangars with entities in a group called "Airfield storage".
These hangars must be within 3km of the airfield's spawn points.

10. Place plane parking spots
Each airfield (not spawn) must have 9 parking spots for fighters, 9 for attack planes and 9 for bombers.
Parking spots for fighters are marked by static bf109 blocks (any variant)
Parking spots for attack planes are marked by static bf110 blocks (any variant)
Parking sports for bombers are marked by static ju88 blocks.
That applies to the Allies side as well. In other words, parking spots on allied-controlled airfields use Axis planes too.
All these blocks must be in a group named "Parked planes"

11. Place tank parking areas
Use influence areas in a group named "Tank parks"
Make sure there's plenty of room for up to 100 tanks
Each region must have exactly one

12. Windsocks
Create windsocks with entities in a group named "Windsocks"

13. Non-directional beacons
Create non-directional beacons (ndb under "vehicles") with entities in a group named "NDBs".
Set beacon channel to 1 in the advanced properties.
Keep the the number of NDBs low. The game puts them all in the same channel, so having too many of them will confuse players.

14. Land fires
Create land fire effects with entities named "LandFire" in a group named "Land fires"

15. Land lights
Create land lights with entities named "LandLight" in a group named "Land lights".
Create a pair for each spawn so that planes will take off and land with the lights in their back.

16. Bridges and other buildings
Bridges and other blocks, buildings... need not be in groups, although they can.
You can import the standard templates and leave them as is. The mission generation script will remove everything that's not in a region, and keep the rest.

17. Sea paths
Create waypoints with end points named Start and End. They should be between 20 and 30km long. Start point must be in start region, End point in destination.
Regions of start and end must be neighbours.
The game automatically creates mirrored paths, i.e. the paths you specify are two-ways.
Put all these waypoints in a group named "Sea".

18. Anchorage
They play a similar role to tank parks, but for armed ships (destroyers, speed boats and submarines).
Create influence areas name "Anchorage" in a group name "Anchorage".
Orientation of influence areas is used to orient the ships.
