Map is divided in regions, each controlled by at most one side

Each side has a rear base

Each region may have an airfield, and each airfield has a number of operational facilities (buildings)

Each airfield has operational points, affected by operational facilities

Each region has logistics infrastructure with neighbours: bridges

Regions have connection capacity to the rear base depending on the state of logistics infrastructure on the paths to the rear base

Regions have maintenance infrastructure depending on buildings in the region

Repairs are available in a region depending on connectivity with the rear base and the health of the maintenance infrastructure

Each region has ground force points.

Repairs are used to increase the health of maintenance infrastructure (buildings in regions), connection capacity (bridges), airfield operationality (buildings at airfields), and ground forces.

Regions on the front lines deplete their points every turn.

Regions get new ground force points every turn depending on the state of logistics infrastructure.

Each region has defense points consisting of its own ground force points, and part of the ground force points of its friendly neighbours (affected by connectivity)

Each region has threat points consisting of part of the ground force points of its enemy neighbours (affected by connectivity)

When a region's threat points exceeds its defense points significantly, it is conquered by the enemy

A region's ground force points is affected by actual damage inflicted by players, and by virtual damage inflicted by virtual ground skirmishes and virtual attacks from the air.

The effectiveness of attacks from virtual events is determined by the effectiveness of actual missions conducted by player.

A mission consists of an airfield of departure, a target area and a plane type.

Missions where the players do not return safely home, even after destroying targets, do not affect positively the outcome of virtual missions.

The number of virtual missions depends on the operational readiness of starting airfields.

Virtual missions can also target airfields and their operational facilities. The success rate of such missions is affected by actual airfield raids conducted by players.

The planned virtual missions are shown on the map during the preceding mission. Players can choose to fly missions to try and improve the income of the upcoming virtual missions, or do their own thing and have a lesser impact.

The former can be seen as "following orders", and has a relatively higher risk (enemies see the planned mission too) with a high reward (both personal and for the team).

The public web stats system should be based on individual contribution to the virtual missions outcomes.

