The campaign system analyses damages caused to buildings and uses that information to affect the status of regions in the campaign.

To be able to perform this task, the software needs a database of all buildings that have strategic value, which are the parts that compose them, and their geometric extent.

This database has to be built manually, and the mission editor is used for that.

Instructions:

1) Pick a building group from the Buildings or the Blocks group in the mission editor

2) Place it on the map, anywhere

3) Pick the Influence Area MCU from the MCUs group

4) Place it over the building

5) Right-click on it, "Edit influence area boundary"

6) Reshape the area so that it better matches the shape of the buildings. There's no need to be super-precise, a rough rectangle usually does the job.
You can add a vertex in the shape by pressing control and clicking on an edge after the currently selected vertex (clockwise).
You can select a vertex by double-clicking on it. The shape must be convex, i.e. the segment between any two points inside the shape must also be inside the shape.
Press ESC to get out of the influence area boundary edit mode.

7) Select the building. Now you will mark all the strategically relevant parts of the group, i.e. fuel tanks, houses... To do so:
In the properties dialog, click on "Add" in the Damage panel. A dialog opens, click OK. Check if a part of the building group looks destroyed or disappeared.
If it's not an important part (e.g. a fence, a net), double click in the row in the Damage table, change the Structure ID to 1, press OK, and repeat until you find an important part.
Keep adding rows for each important part until you have identified all of them.

If you are lucky, all the important parts have low structure IDs. Unfortunately some can have high IDs, I think the max value might be 128.
To find those, it's better to create a mission with an AI that bombs the building, and look for structure IDs in the logs, but that's a bit technical.

The campaign system uses a file named Buildings.Mission as the database. Edit this mission directly, or work in a separate mission and import your buildings as groups or template in Buildings.Mission when you are done.